# ArchiMate modeling mistakes

## Introduction
Models are abstractions of reality. They allow decision-makers to direct efforts towards the most important parts and to cope with the complexity of the system under study. ***"Due to the complex and dynamic nature of organizations, it has been argued that carefully developed models are necessary for understanding their behavior in order to be able to design new systems or improve the operation of existing ones" (Bhaskar et al., 1994; Gladwin & Turnay, 1994; Liles & Presley, 1996)*** Modeling is at the core of organizational design and Information Systems (IS) development (Giaglis, 2001)

Mastering different modeling techniques is also considered as one of the competencies provided by IS curriculum. To analyze and document domain activies, the students should be able to "select modeling techniques appropriate to the domain situation", "apply [...] modeling techniques to investigate and describe a domain situation", "validate the internal consistency of the models produces", and "use computer-based tools to support the creation, editing, sharing and validation of the models". (Topi et al., 2017)

Modeling structural and dynamic components of an organization is a key prerequisite of EA management. The models created to describe these structures and their relationships are referred to as EA artefacts [7]. The EA artefacts describe how the different components of an organization are related to each other and work as an interconnected whole. The EA artefacts can be created for the purposes of the operational management by detailing an organization’s current structural elements or for the strategic change management by representing possible future-state designs and the transition plan between the current and target states. The EA artefacts support the dialogue between the different stakeholders by proving a common language for the planning and development activities. Modeling an EA is usually a laborious and time-consuming task, and needs acumen regarding both organizations’ business functions and IT, as well as expertise on modeling complex and intertwined systems [8]. (<-- Seppänen et al., 2020 -- copy-pastea, joten pitää lyhentää ja editoida)

A majority of organizations practicing EA use some method or a framework to steer the process and the content of their EA work. According to a survey [11], the most commonly used framework in industry is The Open Group Architecture Framework (TOGAF). ArchiMate modeling language, also an Open Group standard, provides a TOGAF compliant modeling notation for all the EA domains. ArchiMate is widely used in both public and private organizations around the world, and it is supported by a majority of EA modeling tools. As a semi–formal modeling language, ArchiMate provides a coherent and visually uniform representation for the EA artefacts covering different components of an organization and their interdependencies. As such it aims at enabling communication among stakeholders and guides the complicated change processes of architectural structures [12]. The architecture viewpoints (i.e., layers) since ArchiMate 3 have been Strategy, Business, Application, Technology, Physical, Motivation, and Implementation & Migration. The architecture elements belonging to the layers are divided into three structural aspects, namely Active, Behavior, and Passive. The elements of Active Structure layer (e.g., a Business Actor and an Application Component) are entities that perform some behavior. The Behavior elements (e.g., a Business Process and an Application Function) are units of activity that is performed by the Active Structure elements. A behavior is performed upon Passive Structure elements (e.g., a Business Object and a Data Object). ArchiMate includes 3 modeling elements in the Strategy layer, 13 modeling elements in the Business layer, 9 in the Application layer, 13 in the Technology layer, 4 in the Physical layer, 10 in the Motivation
layer, and 5 in the Implementation & Migration layer. In addition, there are generic elements to represent grouping and location of other elements. The 11 relationship types between elements can be categorized into four sets. Structural relationships represent static construction or composition between elements. Dependency relationships describe how elements support other elements and Dynamic relationships are used to model behavioral dependencies between elements. There are also Other relationships for representing the cases of specialization and association. (<-- Seppänen et al., 2020 -- copy-pastea, joten pitää lyhentää ja editoida)

In this paper, we will first examine and classify some typical shortcomings and mistakes our IS students' make when using ArchiMate modeling language. Then we reflect on the discussions we had with enterprise modeling professionals  on what kind of challenges they... We hope this paper offers some insights and guidelines for educators teaching modeling and also advices for junior-level professionals working with enterprise architecture, enterprise engineering, organizational modeling, and information systems design.

**Research Questions?**

The remainder of the paper is structured as follows.

## Theory or previous literature - tarkkeeko?
Lorem ipsum.

## Research data and method
We base our analysis of the common mistakes and shortcomings in the ArchiMate models that students (N=117) pursuing bachelor's degree in information systems created as an exercise in the enterprise architecture course. More specifically, the students were asked to create a model of a learning environment system (What is the correct term? Add some sources.) that allows teachers to create interactive learning materials and students to study the materials and perform learning activities of several sorts. In this context, the students were asked to create a model containing at least three elements and their relationships in three ArchiMate Core layers: Technology, Application, and Business. The students were provided with the system's technical documentation that shows some details of the container-based implementation on a logical level. The students were asked to pull relevant information from this documentation to serve as a basis for modeling the Technology layer. For the Application and Business layers, the students were asked to draw from their personal experiences of the system usage, i.e., application services they had used and, for example, the corresponding study processes. The end-result of this modeling excersise is somewhat typical, yet simple, layered architecture diagram presenting freely selected...

Prior to the exercise, the students were taught the basics and some details of the ArchiMate language. The pre-recorded video lectures also contained a number of example how the ArchiMate modeling elements are used in different contexts to represent different domains of enterprise architecture. The majority of the students created their models using Archi tool, which offers a compherensive built-in documentation of the ArchiMate language.

## Modeling mistakes



## References
Giaglis, G. M. (2001). A taxonomy of business process modeling and information systems modeling techniques. International Journal of Flexible Manufacturing Systems, 13(2), 209-228.

Seppänen, V., Pulkkinen, M., Taipalus, T., & Nurmi, J. (2020, October). Information systems students’ impressions on learning modeling enterprise architectures. In 2020 IEEE Frontiers in Education Conference (FIE) (pp. 1-8). IEEE.

